In recent years, a very popular feature has been added to the Gilead graduation programs
and that's allowed us to get to know some of the students a little bit better.
The Inside Story.
So this time, the Inside Story, the interviews are conducted by one of the instructors,
Brother Trent Lippold.
Let's watch.
Welcome to The Inside Story.
We look forward to getting acquainted with two couples from the 154th class.
Life is full of difficult decisions and that's true of course of our Gilead students as well.
So what can stabilize us?
What can help us be successful when making such hard decisions?
First Corinthians chapter 8 verse 1 tells us that love builds up.
So let's see how this has proved true for the couples that we'll talk to today.
Brother and sister Sylvester, welcome.
It's nice to have you on The Inside Story today.
We're both coming to us from Britain and you're in the branch in Britain.
Can you tell us what your assignments are first, Steve?
So I'm currently working with the service department, okay, and Gail Marie.
And I'm in the dental department.
Okay.
So how did you get to Bethel?
What brought you to serve in Bethel, Steve?
Well my mum and my dad, he wasn't in the true, so my mum, she brought myself and my brother
up and she always encouraged the full-time ministry.
It was something that she focused a lot on.
That is a picture of my mum there.
This was a congregation trip that we went on to visit some brothers in Italy.
I think I was about 12, I was a tall 12-year-old.
But actually this picture typifies the type of environment my mum wanted us to be in
because she always sort of immersed us in theocratic activities.
Nice.
So she really applied the council to train up a boy.
Yes.
When I was 19, I had the opportunity to apply for Bethel service and was invited in.
Very nice.
We have a picture here of, is this, this is you?
Yeah, that was me with the transport department.
I was a truck driver.
So we got to travel all over the country, so we just loved my assignment, loved the brothers
I worked with, just loved the whole Bethel environment.
And you got to wear a blue blazer, indeed.
So you're living your dream, you're there in Bethel, but you had some changes in your
life.
What circumstances changed for you that led you out of Bethel?
So it got to a point where my mum's health wasn't so good.
So I needed to make a decision, what do I do, do I stain Bethel, can I support her in
some way?
I mean, my brother, I mean, he was excellent, but he was now married, he had a family
in the south of England, so I made the decision to leave Bethel.
In doing so, we started courting, we got married, sadly, my mum, she did pass away, and
then we had the opportunity to return to Bethel service.
Wow, second time, well, it's a very responsible decision that you made.
So what did you think of that, Kimmery, was Bethel a goal of yours?
Not at all.
I never desired to go to Bethel.
I was quite happy pioneering in our little territory in London, but something that made
me change my thinking was before Steve's mum died.
She said to us that if we had the health, the strength to do more for Jehovah, do it.
So although Bethel wasn't something that I had ever thought about doing, we tried it.
A year later, we were in Bethel together.
Yeah, those are very wise words, and I think you had a photo here of, so this is your
Bethel experience.
Yes, so some of the housekeepers that I worked with, they were very encouraging, very
supportive, helped me through my first few months of Bethel.
A serious group, it looks like.
Yeah, so we had some fun.
Very nice.
So you're back living your dream then, Steve, back in Bethel, but again, change came along.
It did.
So like you said, it was like living the dream, but then my dad's situation changed.
And that was a difficult one because my dad, he wasn't in the truth.
But one of the things my mum had said was actually the week before she passed away, she
just looked at me and said, please look after your dad.
So we talked about it, we prayed about it, and then we made the decision to leave Bethel,
which was a difficult decision to make.
But very, I mean, those are two responsible, very responsible decisions you've made.
But what did you think, Gilmory?
Yeah, we were both disappointed.
We were upset to leave Bethel, but we knew it was the right thing to do to support his
dad.
Can I ask, how old were you at this time?
So we were nearly 35.
OK, so that's a pivotal point for you then, what was going through your mind?
Yeah, so now we're thinking, we're at the age where it's unlikely that we'll be able to
return to Bethel's service or to be able to focus on a goal like that.
But nevertheless, we thought this is the right thing to do.
Good. So how did things turn out for you then?
You're back pioneering in the territory, caring for your dad.
Yeah, so we're in the territory, right in the centre of the territory.
And once we got over the initial disappointment of leaving Bethel, we really enjoyed our
pioneer ministry, loving being with the congregation.
We were busy.
Very busy.
What happened next?
So one morning, the postman comes and in the post was this white envelope.
And it was an invitation for us to begin training for substitute circuit work.
So we were shocked.
We didn't see that one coming.
Again, after talking about it, praying about it, we accepted the assignment and began
substitute work, which was nice because you know, we could be flexible with our work.
Obviously, it's not every week, so it was a nice assignment.
It suited us well.
And I guess suited also for taking care of your father.
Yeah, yeah, it enabled us to be able to do both.
But you didn't stay in the substitute work, did you?
Not for very long.
No.
Eight months.
So eight months down the line, we received another white envelope.
Is that postman again?
So he turns up with another white envelope.
And this time, it's inviting us to train for regular circuit work.
What did you think of that, Gilmoury?
So again, it wasn't my natural desire, never thought about circuit work.
Traveling didn't necessarily appeal to me, living out of a suitcase, staying in people's
homes.
These were all things that were on my mind.
But again, Steve's mum's words rang in my head that if you have the health strength,
circumstances, to do something more for Jehovah, then try it.
But Hans, I mean, that must have been a bit of a concern for you, because you're going
into the regular circuit work, but you still have your dad to take care of, correct?
Yeah, it was a big concern, because of course, except in a circuit assignment, we could
be assigned anywhere in our branch territory.
So we knew that was a possibility.
But again, you trust in Jehovah, and that's what we did.
So when we did receive our first circuit assignment, Jehovah certainly didn't let us down, because
our first assignment was in London, and it covered the area where my dad actually lived.
So we were able to accept the assignment.
Well, what a great benefit from tasting and seeing.
But then in circuit work, of course, a few years will go by, and you'll be moved.
So what happened with your next circuit?
Sadly, unexpectedly as well, my dad passed away, so we didn't see that coming.
So once we dealt with that, we were then able to take up a circuit assignment wherever
the branch assigned us.
And eventually, we were assigned to Scotland, beautiful Scotland.
How did you enjoy?
How did you both enjoy Scotland?
Loved it.
Loved Scotland.
Yeah.
The people very friendly.
Obviously, the brothers and sisters very friendly.
The ministry was quite easy, because you could start conversations very easily.
But we loved it.
We loved serving in Scotland.
It seems to be a recurring theme now, though, because I know you're just enjoying this
assignment, which almost means now it's time for a change for the two of you.
How did your next change come about?
No white envelope this time.
Okay.
But you were getting afraid of those.
I was getting afraid of that.
I stopped making eye contact with the postman.
But I received the phone call one Tuesday morning in the middle of his traditional Scottish
breakfast.
Yeah.
Not a great time, because I was focused.
And I took the phone and he began the conversation by saying, are you sitting down?
So I'm thinking, oh boy, what's he going to say?
And that he invited us to return to Bethel once again.
So my next question was, well, when would you like us in?
A couple of weeks from now, the answer will actually, if you can come in this Friday, that
will be better.
So after some negotiation, we managed to negotiate the following Monday as the date that we return
to Bethel.
I keep asking you the same question, Gallery, but how did you react to the phone call?
So as much as I loved circuit work, I was super excited to go back to Bethel.
I was so excited.
I packed my bags on the same day.
Wow.
Well, you've had a lot of ups and downs in your life.
You were in Bethel.
You had to leave because of your mom.
You go back into Bethel as a couple.
You have to leave.
Death of your father, circuit work.
What would you say are some things that have helped stabilize you when you've had
to make such heavy decisions?
I think having good people around, so like I mentioned before, my mum always immersed
us with good associations, so those brothers that were an integral part of my life, their
influence was certainly there.
My own brother, he was always very stable spiritually, so his example helped me.
I've got images of my mum in my mind of being sat at our kitchen table, her watch tower,
her drawer close to Jehovah, bought the market pens.
She was a student.
She's like a brilliant student.
Yeah, and I think having that influence, that good example helped me then to maintain
that focus.
Nice, yeah.
Family, if you have it, can be a real blessing in that way spiritually.
What about for you, Gail Marie?
What's helped you in making these difficult decisions?
So like Steve, my parents, both my parents, raised all of the siblings in the
truth.
They always helped us to set theocratic goals, even with all the changes that we've had.
They weren't able to see us all the time because of the different places we were, but
they were never demanding, always very supportive, very encouraging.
But also my grandparents, they supported myself and the rest of the family.
You have this great picture.
Yeah.
So this is my grandparents.
Unfortunately, my grandma died before we came to the school, but Granddad is still going.
He's 95, still faithfully serving Jehovah.
He's always been a real good support for myself and the rest of the family.
Oh, that's beautiful.
I wonder, you know, even today, I wonder what he would say to you right now if you were
here.
Yeah.
Steve and Gail, I've watched you let Jehovah plant you in his organization like a tree.
He has kept feeding and watering you.
Show your appreciation by remembering the thanking, except whatever assignment is offered
and let his hands guide you as you continue to trust him and share your trading just as
a tree produces good fruitage and its shade refreshes.
Well, I guess that's what he'd like to say to you.
Wow.
Yeah.
That is wonderful advice, though.
I'm sorry, I know you weren't expecting that, Gail Marie, but your grandfather was so happy
to share those words of advice with you.
It was lovely.
Maybe one last question.
If you had to sum up with all you've been through in your lives, if you had to maybe
sum up just a key lesson, what would it be?
I think there's a couple of things that come to mind.
One of the things, again, my mum always told me, especially when I was younger, you don't
always have to be the best.
Just do your best and even going through to school, you know, those words have really helped
me just to focus on what's most important and also something else that we've learnt
in the school was the example of Jeremiah when he said of Jehovah, oh, Jehovah, you fooled
me.
And that's what Jehovah does.
He fooled us at times.
You know, we think that we're not able to accomplish something.
We think that we're not able to keep going, but we can.
In Jehovah's strength, he fooled us and we are able to succeed.
So I think those two things have been a real stabilising influence on myself.
Thank you.
Gail Marie, what would you say?
I would say, again, going back to what Steve's mum told us before she passed away, that
if we have the circumstances to do more for Jehovah, if we have the health and we have
the strength, just try it.
You know, even if it's not your natural thing, you know, you never thought about doing
it.
You'll be surprised that when you do try something new, you'll grow to love it.
This is that scripture in Psalms 34 says, Taste and See, that Jehovah is good.
Thank you very much.
Thank you very much, both, for being with us today on The Insights Story.
Thank you.
Now, let's welcome our next guests, Gizem and Ergun Chimen from Turkey.
Brothers and sisters, Chimen, welcome to The Insights Story.
It's nice to have you with us today.
You're both serving at the branch in Turkey, Ergun.
You're serving in the service department and Gizem in the translation department.
Today we're looking forward to a special feature on this edition of The Insights Story that
you've brought with you.
And let me ask you this first, though, what do you love about serving in Turkey?
It is very exciting because many plays mentioned in the Bible are in Turkey.
And have you visited many of these places, Ergun?
Yeah.
We visited many of these places.
And we know some can visit these places, others don't have the opportunity to travel.
But we would like to show a few places we love.
Let's take a trip to Asia Minor.
Thank you very much.
We're looking forward to seeing it.
Did you know that many of the places mentioned in the Bible are located in Turkey?
These lands have played a significant role in the history of God's people.
And we have been immersed in the Bible lands in class.
Would you like to visit some of them?
Luckily, the first place many may think of is Ephesus, located on the west coast of Asia
Minor.
This city was considered a crossroad of the ancient world.
When touring, you will see the ruins of a large stadium and theater.
But the most outstanding future of the city was the temple of Artemis, ranked to be one
of the seven wonders of the world by the ancients.
Many well-known Christians walked through here, including Paul, John, Timothy and Mark.
The Apostle Paul spent a lot of time in this city, preaching and performing miracles.
As a result, many Ephesians became believers.
While this was pleasing to Jehovah, it angered others and culminated in a city riot at
the theater.
It was also here in Ephesus that Peresila and Aquila met Apollos and helped him gain
an accurate understanding of the truth.
And many years later, the Apostle John would riot his three letters and the gospel from
here.
A lot happened in Ephesus, but just a little further to the northwest was another notable
city mentioned in the Bible.
Pergamon.
As you may recall, this was one of the seven congregations addressed in the letter of
revelation.
And as we learned, the city was steep not only in religious worship, but also in political
worship.
In fact, Pergamon was the first city to have a temple dedicated to a Roman emperor.
This was a subtle way to unite all the various conquered countries under a common god.
While they were free to worship their national gods, all were required to worship the emperor.
It was for these reasons that the faithful Christians in Pergamon were said to be living
where the throne of Satan is.
Yet, despite being surrounded by all kinds of worship, the brothers and sisters were praised
for holding fast to Jesus' name.
They were a good example for us today.
Next, we arrived at Sidis.
The manufacturing of woolen clothes and carpets, as well as its fertile agriculture,
have made Sardis an effluent city.
Here too, you will see prominent ruins of a temple dedicated to the goddess Artemis, a Roman
theater and a stadium.
This was not an easy environment to keep one's eye simple.
There were many distractions.
By the latter part of the first century CE, the Christian congregation in Sardis was
admonished to wake up spiritually.
However, Jehovah also took notice that there were some Christians who did not defy their
altar garments from a spiritual standpoint.
Jehovah doesn't miss anyone.
How true.
Well-given, last on our field trip is the city of Laudicia.
This city enjoyed great prosperity as a banking center.
This is true.
Yet, it had one major disadvantage.
Unlike its neighboring cities, Laudicia had no permanent water source.
So, by means of an echo deck and a series of stone blocks that were brought through
the center and cemented together, water was piped in from far away.
By the time it reached the city, it was usually lukewarm.
This helps us to understand why it was a fitting metaphor to use when giving counsel to the
congregation.
Though materially rich, they were spiritually poor.
The glorified Jesus Christ encouraged them to be stimulating the hot or refreshingly
cold, but not to stay lukewarm in their worship to Jehovah.
But good reminders for all of us.
These are just a few of the locations in Turkey mentioned in the Bible.
There is much more to see and learn.
We hope you enjoyed this short field trip to Asia Minor.
Thank you very much Ergun and Gizem, you've really, through that video, brought to life
some of those cities in Turkey that are found in the Bible in Asia Minor.
Thank you for being with us on this edition of The Insight Story.
Our experiences today have shown us that love does build up.
And Jehovah provides people for us, our brothers and sisters, our families who give us the
support we need as we go through life, the kind of support that all of us value receiving,
but also the kind of support that we ourselves can give others.
Hebrews 12-12 encourages us to strengthen the hands that hang down.
It's something that each one of us can do and we never know what it will do for our
brothers and sisters.
We look forward to seeing you again on another edition of The Insight Story.